{\rtf1
\ansi\ansicpg1252
\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Segoe UI;}}
{\colortbl;}
{\*\generator PHPWord;}

{\info{\title Epiphany}{\subject }{\category }{\keywords }{\comment }{\author Elizabeth Lowe}{\operator Benjamin Locher}{\creatim \yr2019\mo01\dy04\hr17\min30\sec00}{\revtim \yr2023\mo02\dy16\hr22\min55\sec00}{\company  }{\manager }}
\deftab720\viewkind1\uc1\pard\nowidctlpar\lang1036\kerning1\fs20
\sectd \pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840 \margtsxn1440\margrsxn1800\margbsxn1440\marglsxn1800\headery720\footery720\guttersxn0 
{\footer\pard\par
}
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 Church of the Advent, Brookline}{\cf0\f0 	}{\cf0\f0 	}{\cf0\f0 	}{\cf0\f0 	}{\cf0\f0 	}{\cf0\f0      Elizabeth Locher}}\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 January 6, 2019 \uc0{\u8211} Feast of the Epiphany}}\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 Isaiah 60:1-6}}\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 Psalm 72:1-7,10-14}}\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 Ephesians 3:1-12}}\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 Matthew 2:1-12}}\par
\pard\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0  }{\cf0\f0 \uc0{\u8220}}{\cf0\f0\ul Arise, shine; }{\cf0\f0\b\ul for your light}{\cf0\f0\ul  has come}{\cf0\f0 , }{\cf0\f0\i and the glory}{\cf0\f0  of the Lord has risen upon you.}{\cf0\f0  For behold, darkness covers the land; deep gloom enshrouds the peoples. But over you the Lord will rise, and his glory will appear upon you. Nations shall come to your light, and kings to the brightness of your dawn. . . They shall bring gold and frankincense, and shall proclaim the praise of the Lord.}{\cf0\f0 \uc0{\u8221} }}\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 Our Old Testament reading this morning is the Third Song of Isaiah, his third poetic prophecy of the Messiah. And it is a reading that may feel quite \uc0{\u8220}Christmas-y\uc0{\u8221} to us. We often hear that prophecy in Advent readings or Christmas pageants around this time of year. And of course, the notion of kings bringing gold and frankincense is an unmistakable foreshadowing of the coming of the Wise Men.}}\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 But t}{\cf0\f0 oday is the feast}{\cf0\f0  celebrating the wise men themselves, the Feast}{\cf0\f0  of }{\cf0\f0 the }{\cf0\f0 Epiphany, which is officially the end of the }{\cf0\f0 twelve days}{\cf0\f0  of Christmas. }{\cf0\f0 And }{\cf0\f0 yet }{\cf0\f0 many }{\cf0\f0 of us}{\cf0\f0  may}{\cf0\f0  feel that Christmas has }{\cf0\f0 already }{\cf0\f0 been over for some time}{\cf0\f0 . }{\cf0\f0 A lot of us have run out of cookies}{\cf0\f0 . We\uc0{\u8217}ve}{\cf0\f0  said goodbye to relatives, have }{\cf0\f0 gone back to the daily routine, or}{\cf0\f0  start}{\cf0\f0 ed}{\cf0\f0  up work, or school.}}\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 The joy and excitement of Christmas has}{\cf0\f0  likely}{\cf0\f0  faded now}{\cf0\f0 . Even if we have been trying to cling to it. }}\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 But the story is not over! }{\cf0\f0 Today we are commemorating the arrival of the wise men to }{\cf0\f0 see }{\cf0\f0 the newborn God. Although Jesus has been }{\cf0\f0 born}{\cf0\f0  for }{\cf0\f0 some time}{\cf0\f0  now, and has been greeted b}{\cf0\f0 y angels and shepherds, today}{\cf0\f0  in the story}{\cf0\f0  }{\cf0\f0 the reality has finally reached the first of the Gentiles to hear the good news. So we }{\cf0\f0 really }{\cf0\f0 should }{\cf0\f0 keep}{\cf0\f0  celebrating! }{\cf0\f0  }}\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 Today is a day to celebrate, because on the Feast of the Epiphany, }{\cf0\f0 we remember that Jesus came }{\cf0\f0 to earth }{\cf0\f0 for every single human being.}{\cf0\f0  }}\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 Today is a day to celebrate, }{\cf0\f0 because}{\cf0\f0  }{\cf0\f0 we continue to celebrate the Incarnation \uc0{\u8211} that }{\cf0\f0 God walked among us and taught us, and healed us, a}{\cf0\f0 nd died for us, and showed us by}{\cf0\f0  H}{\cf0\f0 is presence how deeply }{\cf0\f0 H}{\cf0\f0 e loves us}{\cf0\f0 . }}\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 Today is a day to celebrate, because of course, every day is a day to celebrate the coming of Christ into the world.}{\cf0\f0 	}{\cf0\f0  }}\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 But even though God was present }{\cf0\f0 \uc0{\u8211} H}{\cf0\f0 ere}{\cf0\f0 !}{\cf0\f0  }{\cf0\f0 W}{\cf0\f0 ith us humans}{\cf0\f0 !}{\cf0\f0  }{\cf0\f0 O}{\cf0\f0 n earth}{\cf0\f0 !}{\cf0\f0  }{\cf0\f0 A}{\cf0\f0 nd God is still present with us today}{\cf0\f0  -}{\cf0\f0  we have trouble maintaining the excitement. }{\cf0\f0 Our eyes }{\cf0\f0 somehow }{\cf0\f0 get}{\cf0\f0  used to the Light}{\cf0\f0  of God}{\cf0\f0 .}}\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 This is a normal struggle throughout all }{\cf0\f0 of }{\cf0\f0 our lives. We}{\cf0\f0  }{\cf0\f0 get }{\cf0\f0 caught up in the routine of everyday life, and it is so routine. }{\cf0\f0 We }{\cf0\f0 know that God is present with us, present in us, present all around us, but sometimes that slips }{\cf0\f0 our}{\cf0\f0  mind}{\cf0\f0 s}{\cf0\f0 . }{\cf0\f0 We take on the habits of society all around us, which behaves as if there were no God, as if He weren\uc0{\u8217}t present and active in the moments of our lives. }}\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 And so mentally we}{\cf0\f0  move God to the background, sometimes far }{\cf0\f0 to}{\cf0\f0  the background}{\cf0\f0 . A}{\cf0\f0 nd sometimes }{\cf0\f0 we also}{\cf0\f0  mistake tha}{\cf0\f0 t for God moving far away}{\cf0\f0  from }{\cf0\f0 us}{\cf0\f0 . T}{\cf0\f0 hen }{\cf0\f0 we can r}{\cf0\f0 eally }{\cf0\f0 f}{\cf0\f0 orget that }{\cf0\f0 H}{\cf0\f0 e is }{\cf0\f0\i actually}{\cf0\f0  }{\cf0\f0 right here with us. }}\par
\pard\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 Have you ever had a moment like}{\cf0\f0  the one}{\cf0\f0  Isaiah describes}{\cf0\f0  in his song}{\cf0\f0 ? }{\cf0\f0 When h}{\cf0\f0 e says, \uc0{\u8220}Lift up your eyes and look around . . . then you shall see and be radiant; your heart shall thrill and rejoice.\uc0{\u8221} }{\cf0\f0 When you really feel \uc0{\u8220}the glory of the Lord risen upon you\uc0{\u8221}?}}\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 Sometimes }{\cf0\f0 we can}{\cf0\f0  get a flash of joy in the Lord when s}{\cf0\f0 inging a hymn, or another}{\cf0\f0  song. }}\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 Sometimes in the middle of worship}{\cf0\f0  we may become}{\cf0\f0  overwhelmed with awe that Jesus came}{\cf0\f0  down to earth and }{\cf0\f0 lived and died}{\cf0\f0  for us}{\cf0\f0 . }}\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 Some}{\cf0\f0 times an act of kindness by another reminds }{\cf0\f0 us}{\cf0\f0  of the love of Christ, who is }{\cf0\f0 present in friend and stranger. }{\cf0\f0  }}\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 I had a very strange one this week, myself. I got sick when we came back from visiting family, and so by Thursday when I was just starting to feel better, the house was a mess, almost nothing had been unpacked, I hadn\uc0{\u8217}t written a sermon, and I was starting to really feel }{\cf0\f0 frustrated}{\cf0\f0  and sorry for myself. }}\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 And then my daughter got sick, and an instantaneous reversal happened in my heart, and all I was thinking of}{\cf0\f0 , suddenly, }{\cf0\f0 was helping her. And how to care for her. And all my self-pity vanished away}{\cf0\f0  in a moment}{\cf0\f0  in my new focus on caring for someone else. And as generally happens, when we start thinking of others instead of focusing on ourselves, my heart was lifted out of that place of \uc0{\u8211} frankly \uc0{\u8211} selfishness and sin, and I was filled with love, instead}{\cf0\f0 . W}{\cf0\f0 hich was a genuine source of joy, even as I had to care for a sick child. }}\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 And I felt the hand of God in that, oddly enough. It was spiritually healing to turn my love and concern outward again, where it belonged. And }{\cf0\f0 I felt that }{\cf0\f0 it was God}{\cf0\f0  pouring His}{\cf0\f0  grace}{\cf0\f0  on me}{\cf0\f0  that made that happen. }}\par
\pard\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 T}{\cf0\f0 hose moments when we recognize the Presence of God, whether transcendent or even bizarrely mundane, these moments can open our eyes and hearts to God\uc0{\u8217}s splendor, God\uc0{\u8217}s light in the world once more. And that awareness}{\cf0\f0  may be just a momentary spark. }{\cf0\f0 Or it may burn inside us much longer, and make us wonder how we could have gone so long unaware of God\uc0{\u8217}s presence in our lives.}{\cf0\f0  }}\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 Can you imagine the excitement the wise men must have felt when they came to see the infant Jesus?  When they saw omens in the sky, and a miraculous star }{\cf0\f0 so extraordinary that they each made pilgrimages }{\cf0\f0 that }{\cf0\f0 drew }{\cf0\f0 them to Bethlehem? }}\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 And}{\cf0\f0  when they found the child }{\cf0\f0 the mystery deepened.}{\cf0\f0  Something very different was going on here, the}{\cf0\f0  amazing}{\cf0\f0  star, and the}{\cf0\f0 n the}{\cf0\f0  unexpectedly common }{\cf0\f0 place of birth}{\cf0\f0  for a newborn king? }}\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 And }{\cf0\f0 St. Matthew says, \uc0{\u8220}When they saw that the star had stopped, they were }{\cf0\f0\ul overwhelmed with joy}{\cf0\f0 . On entering the house, they saw the child with Mary his mother; and they knelt down }{\cf0\f0 and worshipped him.\uc0{\u8221}}}\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 They were overwhelmed with joy.}{\cf0\f0  They worshipped.}{\cf0\f0  }{\cf0\f0 No}{\cf0\f0 ne of this is}{\cf0\f0  the standard }{\cf0\f0 story of}{\cf0\f0  the birth of a }{\cf0\f0 human}{\cf0\f0  king. Could}{\cf0\f0  they feel the difference in this}{\cf0\f0  child? }}\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 I}{\cf0\f0 t must have been incredible to meet}{\cf0\f0  Jesus in person. There must have been something about him that made}{\cf0\f0  those who became}{\cf0\f0  his disciples leave their tools, their work, their homes, and follow him before they knew}{\cf0\f0  almost}{\cf0\f0  anything about him.}{\cf0\f0  Even as an infant, what could th}{\cf0\f0 e}{\cf0\f0 s}{\cf0\f0 e}{\cf0\f0  foreign kings sense in him?}{\cf0\f0  }}\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 And h}{\cf0\f0 ow did it change the}{\cf0\f0 ir}{\cf0\f0  lives?}{\cf0\f0  We know so little about them. What did they do when they }{\cf0\f0 returned to their homelands}{\cf0\f0 ? What had changed in them after coming face to face with God? }}\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 I wonder, d}{\cf0\f0 id they listen constantly for more news of this child? }{\cf0\f0 Is there any chance}{\cf0\f0  they co}{\cf0\f0 nsidered venturing}{\cf0\f0  }{\cf0\f0 back }{\cf0\f0 when he }{\cf0\f0 came of age, to see what he would do as a man?}}\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 Or d}{\cf0\f0 id they stay in their homelands, and return to their lives, and from time to time wonder if what they had experienced was real?}{\cf0\f0  }}\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 Perhaps }{\cf0\f0 they wonder}{\cf0\f0 ed}{\cf0\f0  if it possibly could have been}{\cf0\f0  real}{\cf0\f0 , when the rest of the}{\cf0\f0 ir}{\cf0\f0  world kept on going about its business the same way it always had? }}\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 Did they think about the divine child less and less often as the years passed, because their li}{\cf0\f0 ves were busy and they were}{\cf0\f0  thinking about }{\cf0\f0 their own concerns}{\cf0\f0  instead}{\cf0\f0 ?}}\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 I hope they }{\cf0\f0 stayed in contact with each other, and pondered }{\cf0\f0 what they had experienced}{\cf0\f0 . }{\cf0\f0 And}{\cf0\f0  told others as well, and kept their story as alive as they could.}}\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 I wonder if anyone who heard their story went back to Palestine to see for themselves. If }{\cf0\f0 stories}{\cf0\f0  travelled}{\cf0\f0  back to them about what the grown Jesus was saying and doing. }}\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 Like the wise men, w}{\cf0\f0 e have to live our lives at a}{\cf0\f0  distance from the events of }{\cf0\f0 Scripture}{\cf0\f0 . }{\cf0\f0\i We}{\cf0\f0  have }{\cf0\f0\ul time}{\cf0\f0  as well as geography separating us, and we }{\cf0\f0 have}{\cf0\f0  not}{\cf0\f0  had that wild encounter with God literally face to face, as they did.}{\cf0\f0  }{\cf0\f0 But }{\cf0\f0 perhaps we }{\cf0\f0 still }{\cf0\f0 have }{\cf0\f0 much in common. }}\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 The life of faith ebbs and flows}{\cf0\f0 . W}{\cf0\f0 e all have had times of }{\cf0\f0 more }{\cf0\f0 intense faith and passion.}{\cf0\f0  And we }{\cf0\f0 all have to struggle with the normalcy of daily life and the way it makes the miraculous seem so improbable.}{\cf0\f0  }{\cf0\f0 We probably have all come to question our faith at times and yearned for certainty we }{\cf0\f0 may have }{\cf0\f0 felt in the past.}}\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 Despite our doubts, God is as present }{\cf0\f0 with}{\cf0\f0  us as }{\cf0\f0 H}{\cf0\f0 e was to the wise men on the first Epiphany, even if }{\cf0\f0\i we}{\cf0\f0  can\uc0{\u8217}t assure ourselves of this with our eyes.}{\cf0\f0  And }{\cf0\f0 H}{\cf0\f0 e reveals Himself, in big ways and small, in worship, }{\cf0\f0 and}{\cf0\f0  in other people, and in }{\cf0\f0 totally}{\cf0\f0  unexpected moments. }}\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 And just like the wise men, whether we are full of fresh wonder, or feeling }{\cf0\f0 rather }{\cf0\f0 distant from God\uc0{\u8217}s Presence, we still have a story to tell. Our own particular story \uc0{\u8211} of our journey to seek God, and glimpse Him, and perhaps get lost, and yet find ourselves guided back to Him again. And then of course the story of Jesus himself \uc0{\u8211} of his life, and his work, all the glimpses we have}{\cf0\f0  of him}{\cf0\f0  from the eyewitness accounts of others, carried to us through distance and time. }}\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 You}{\cf0\f0  can remind }{\cf0\f0 yourself}{\cf0\f0  of }{\cf0\f0 y}{\cf0\f0 our own stories, but also we can build each other up as a community by sharing our stories among ourselves here. }}\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 And then, of course, there are many others who need to hear }{\cf0\f0 your stori}{\cf0\f0 es, too. People in t}{\cf0\f0 his neighborhood. Friends, with whom perhaps you\uc0{\u8217}ve somehow never quite discussed your faith, even though it\uc0{\u8217}s so central to you that it brings you back to this place, week after week. Perhaps a friend, or neighbor, or coworker really needs to be here, with us, on Sunday morning, and they don\uc0{\u8217}t even know it yet. And we need them. }}\par
\pard\par
\pard\par
\pard\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 So perhaps in this season when we celebrate that God spread his arms wide to make himself known to all people, we should make a special effort to reach out ourselves with invitation, and actively invite, or suggest that someone each of us knows come join us }{\cf0\f0 here }{\cf0\f0 in worship. Or start one of those rare, holy conversations where were actually speak with another person about times we have felt God real and present in our lives \uc0{\u8211} no matter how dramatic or mundane those stories might be. }}\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 We have no idea what such little acts of courage might bring about in the life of this place or the life of someone we love. But neither did the wise men know what they were getting into. }{\cf0\f0 And yet}{\cf0\f0  once they were swept up in the grand adventure of finding God, they did discover that }{\cf0\f0 it}{\cf0\f0  overwhelmed }{\cf0\f0 them }{\cf0\f0 with joy. }}\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar {{\cf0\f0 Amen. }}\par
\sect
}